Welcome back.
Fantastic God.
People in this video we're going to start building a tutorial.
Our game is pretty playable.
We have a single level with an exciting gameplay loop but let's make this game better for players because
just because we know how to play doesn't mean someone else will.
We're never finished a shooter in this video.
Instead we're going to get it started by making a tutorial map and before we make the map.
We should have a very clear idea of what's going to happen in she it off.
It's very hard to design a map if you don't know what has to be in it.
So how will the tutorial work.
Well the first thing I want is an optional tutorial so we're going to fire this up by a splash screen
with some buttons on it be a start game there'll be a tutorial.
I really dislike it when a game forces me to play the tutorial especially if it does it every time I
play it.
Sometimes a game when we could do the tutorial the first time you play and then you never have to do
it again.
But then when you reinstall it does anyway so none of that option tutorial.
It also teach the players the following things 1 how to move.
Yes a D and mouse may not be obvious for this particular player.
Let's make it easy for them how to interact with objects.
If you use a computer or open a door you have to be within range and click on it with the mouse that
will not be obvious solist each place will do that.
We also want to teach them how to use night vision and why you might want to do so and how to collect
loot and how and when to use the exit.
So any move interact use night vision collect loot and exit so let's go to God and make a map that allows
us to do this before we go any further.
I happen to know that at some point I'm going to want to use vision mode.
This little note right here.
I'd rather recreate it.
I want to use this as a scene I can insert someone a right click on it and I'm going to go save branch
as seen and it seems I'm going to check a save vision mode.
Now it's an instant scene and I can open it as it's unci.
That's going to be really useful in a moment because then I can bring the node in.
OK let's make any brand new scene and I'm gonna use no tuti as my child note and I won't call it a tutorial.
And before I go any further I'm going to save it in scenes in levels tutorial.
Fantastic.
Okay I want flaws and I want a wall.
And those are both titlemax Maps.
Some of the brignac spent time at any time up node and white which you start with first floors.
We've got tile sets floors and there it is and I can very easily draw some flats in a renamed as all
floors.
Back up Sheesh you tauriel and I may do the same thing tile map but this time is going to be the auto
tile walls and that is the beginning of our level.
Observe.
I can go.
Here is a floor.
Doo doo doo.
In fact I'm doing a silly way round.
I could very easily bucketful and back to paint tile and now agh with small sensor.
Click on Sprite.
Great.
So we've got to undo those.
And let's think about what we want to happen.
I want the player to start in a little room like this.
And there's going to be a door and with a say the play Okay you want to move through a hallway and get
a bit more character that will go to a door and you need to open the door.
I guess our first move out of this room that's shooter or someone to open a door that's here.
She tauriel step to correct.
So let's put in the floor.
I'm scared to.
Draw round the outside and then use a bucket fill.
There it is.
And I would change the floors for this but get it so when in a door that was an instance a door in scenes.
Door to move it to over here is not to be a locked door just a basic door.
Let's rotate that.
See.
Door transform.
90 degrees.
Double check that off floors and all walls on the correct collision layers.
They are not players.
They are touraine and they can attract the player do the same thing with older walls which haven't names
hold.
Name that and quickly.
Not a player you are touraine and you can interact with the player.
Awesome.
Alice put the door in a slightly settable place.
OK is looking at the next thing I want to do is the place to have to use night vision mode and do that
will make a little bit of a wiggly corridor so something where you can't see where you're going.
You're going to get stuck allots let's just make something like this.
That feels good.
And then there's going to be a little error with the loot annetts as us make that neater and the little
area with an exit.
OK.
So the players can be told to use night vision here.
They'll be no lights here come through here put some lights in here briefcase exit.
And that's looking fine.
So let's put some floors in.
And at number the beauty of using tiles and auto tiles is we can alter this to a heart's content any
time we like.
So that is very shiny and Pete Boop.
My floors doors and walls are all done.
Let's put the player and some instance in the player who is on the character's player and movie 2 over
here less instance in our vision mode.
It's looking pretty good.
Let's just see how that plays so far.
I go into here.
I can move around and I can be a disguise and vision mode crashes.
Why.
Because I don't have a vision.
No time OK.
That's fine.
Let's go to level 1 and scroll down to play others vision a timer.
OK.
So vision mode timer should actually be a child of the player which I haven't done.
So when I do right now is delete vision mode Time and tiley we go into the play a scene at a timer here.
And we call this vision timer
and connect that in let's just see where it was connected do on vision mode timer timeout somewhere.
Copy that connect it as a signal to play.
I've just copy pasted on my time at time out just in case I see nothing on which I actually have to
correct the spelling for any further.
See vision mode time.
There we go.
I get connect actually pace that and that should still work fine and to double check.
Let's just run the game.
That's great.
OK.
Let's see how the tutorial plates now.
So close the play a scene mix from the right scene.
Awesome.
Great.
OK a couple more things on ADD.
I want to add a briefcase and an exit.
Let's put one briefcase in a briefcase.
It is right here and drag it down to there.
There's briefcase now exit extenso instant scene exit and that's going to live right here.
Yeah.
Which brings me to the challenge.
Unlike you to create your tutorial level Remember we need a door a section for night vision a briefcase
and an exit.
It's pretty simple.
Pause the video make you level and then when you come back I'll wrap up this video.
I'm ok back.
All right.
In this video we've looked at how we plan the requirements for a tutorial and how to set up a new level
with our existing assets so we can bring in vision mode we can bring in walls we can bring in doors
all those things we've saved a scenes.
We can now bring in very easily.
We also troubleshoot a little bit with a vision more time and not being on the player.
So excellent work and I'll see you in the next video.